# Ten Weeks: Assignment 2

In phase two of the project you will begin implementing the plug-in or extension you described in phase one.

## Deliverables

Live demo

- Five to 10 minutes long
- When?
  - 1st week April

- Focused on showing your work to the class and your audience, both as a demo and as a set of artefacts in your repository.
- Your audience may ask you a couple of questions during the demo.
- _Hint:_ No need for one talking head. It&#39;s always an option to &quot;pass the mic&quot; to another team member.

Technical Product Report

A markdown document in your repository -A2/product.md, with the following items:

- Short report (4-8 min&#39; read)
- What did you build during this phase?
- High-level design of your software.
- Technical highlights: interesting bugs, challenges, lessons learned, observations, etc.
- Reflect on your teamwork and process. What worked well, what needs improvement.
- Triage: What will you build for the final demo?
- Note: we&#39;re looking for a consistent story here - If you say, we did A and B, we tested X and Y, we tried Z but discarded the idea - so claims about work progress should be reflected by artefacts that are visible in your git repository. The easiest way to accomplish this, and not coincidentally the way we hope you&#39;ll approach this, is to check incremental work into your repositories early and often, especially if it&#39;s incomplete.

Your artifacts will be evaluated based on the following expectations

| **Artifact** | **Expectations (in order of importance)** |
| --- | --- |
| Demo |
- A live demonstration of your software
- Show material progress towards a great plug-in or extension
- Answer technical questions about your project
- Well-planned, interesting and informative
 |
| Technical Product Report |
- Clearly describes what has been built.
- Uses meaningful artifacts (e.g. diagrams, links to source-code and/or pull-requests, etc.)
- Shows significant progress towards your goal.
- Highlights significant decisions and/or issues you had to deal with (or that you anticipate).
  - In particular, answers to and insights generated by the Sprint Questions provided in assignment 1 will be expected.
- Overall, high-quality presentation.
- Describes strengths and weaknesses of your process in an insightful way
  - Referring to meeting minutes or other process artifacts in a useful way.
- Makes realistic plan for final work towards demo
 |

## Evaluation

We will evaluate your deliverables using the following rubrics.

| **Component** | **0** | **1** | **2** | **3** | **4** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Demo (50%) |
 |
 |
 |
 |
 |
| Technical Product Report (50%) |
 |
 |
 |
 |
 |

We will compute your mark by converting each component to percentage (according to the table below) and taking the average.

| 4 | 100% | Outstanding |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 3 | 85% | Good, meeting all expectations |
| 2 | 70% | OK, but some expectations were not fully met |
| 1 | 50% | Below expectations |
| 0 | 0% | Missing (or extremely low quality) work |

**IMPORTANT:** We expect all team members to contribute to the project.

Students who do not participate are risking not earning a mark for this phase (keep in mind that, throughout the project, we will look at the [graphs of your repo](https://help.github.com/articles/about-repository-graphs/) to determine individual participation).
