# Assignment 1

## Introduction

We will talk about Mozilla add-ons and extensions and how important they are to be to the Firefox community. This term, you are going to build one. 

The first phase of this project is all about planning, or at least thinking ahead. You should:

1. Come up with an idea for your project.
2. Get used to working together as a team.

When we say “come up with an idea for your project”, we actually want you to answer the questions: 

1. What are you planning to build?
To do a good job of this, it’s very important that you know, or at least consider:
2. Who are you building it for?

And particularly

3. Why would they find what you want to build useful/valuable?
4. How would one validate that what you built was useful?

Notice that, to answer the third question, you probably have to guess, to make a hypothesis. In the context of this project it will be challenging to collect little feedback from actual users and hence you probably never will be certain that your software is actually useful/valuable for them.  However, looking ahead to the last stage of the project, and in particular the questions we may ask you on demo day, you should have metrics in mind so that by the end of the project you will have validated your guesswork as best you can.
What we expect you to do for this phase …

## Get together and brainstorm about project ideas. 


For each idea, you will/should go through multiple “iterations” of:
* Coming up with an idea.
* Articulating the idea clearly (What is it? Who is it for? And, why is it valuable?)
* Improving the idea or deciding to drop it.


Make sure to save artifacts from your meetings/discussions.
* Producing artifacts (e.g. writing things down) requires you to be clear and precise.
* You can refer to artifacts later, instead of relying on your memory.
* If someone misses a meeting, the artifacts can help keep them in the loop.
* Hint: By committing artifacts (or links to artifacts) to GitHub on an on-going basis, you can help the people grading you get a clear picture of your work and progress.

It is totally fine (and somewhat expected) if you end up switching project ideas a few times during this phase. The point is to put yourself in the best possible starting point for phase 2 (once phase 2 starts, you'll need to commit to it)

## Deliverables

There are three deliverables, both should be short (4-6 minutes read) and submitted to the team’s repo, under doc/phase1.

Summary.md
* Goal: Describe your project.
* Make sure to focus on:
   * What are you planning to build? Who are the users? And, why do you think users will find your software useful/valuable?
   * How are you planning to build it?
Ex: What are the different components of the system? What are some of the anticipated challenges? How will you divide the work?
   * Intended audience:
   * Your TA/instructor expect to get a good understanding of your planned project, based on this document alone.
   * Your team -- to make sure everybody is on the same page. 
In the next phase(s), you will be able to refer back to it when deciding how to prioritize work.

Collaboration.md
 * Goal: Provide insight into your collaborative work as a team
 * Make sure to describe the team’s competencies and constraints. Ex: Experience, strengths, skills, schedule conflicts and/or other relevant information about individual team members.
 * Describe your brainstorming meetings:
      * When, where (online, phone, physical location) of meetings
      * Who was there?
      * Rough meeting minutes/notes.
      * Consider the logistics of  your future meetings:
      * When and where will you meet? 
      * Plan your collaboration ahead
      * Which roles will individuals take on?
      * How will you make decisions? 
      * github/git How will you collaborate?

A short presentation, in-class:
      * Goals: An "elevator pitch" style presentation of the project, including
      * A concise expression of the nature and value of this effort,
      * A clear enunciation of the intended audience of the work,
      * How the work makes that person's life better, and
      * How you gained that insight, and why you believe it to be true.
      * The tools of this presentation are up to you - slides or no slides, props, interpretive dance, sea shanties, doesn't matter: what matters is that you've been deliberate in choosing the right tool for the task.

# General note about the deliverables:

We expect to see high-quality deliverables, that means:
      * Clear and concise writing.
      * Focus on content, not on buzzwords.
      * Provide concrete examples from your experience.
For example, a statement like “Our main challenge was collaboration, and we solved it with good communication” is not fooling anyone not specific or focused, and doesn’t tell us anything about your work. 
      * Think of the reader(s) and keep your reports organized.
      * Make sure to leave enough time to proofread each other’s work
(if you’re not writing, then you should definitely be proofreading)
      * Feel free (and encouraged) to use any tool/technique that can improve the quality of your deliverables. Ex:
         * Use links, images, tables and other markdown features.
         * Diagrams, screenshots, mockups, storyboards, wireframes, fake command-line session, etc.
         * User personas (if you Google for “Persona Generator”, you will find a few free online tools)
         * User stories

Note: These are suggestions, not requirements, and are open to negotiation. You should push back on any suggestions or guidance that will result in your delivering work you're not proud of.

It is your responsibility to make sure your deliverables answer all expectations.
If something is not clear, we expect you to take initiative and ask questions:
         * During your team meeting with your TA
         * During tutorials and/or lectures
         * On the discussion board


________________


Evaluation


We will evaluate your deliverables using the following rubrics.


Component
	0
	1
	2
	3
	4
	Clearly explain what you are planning to build
	

	

	

	

	

	Clearly explain who your target users are
	

	

	

	

	

	Clearly explain why the product you are planning to build is valuable to the target users
	

	

	

	

	

	Overall quality of deliverables
	

	

	

	

	

	Overall insight
	

	

	

	

	

	

We will compute your mark by converting each component to percentage (according to the table below) and taking the average.


4
	100%
	Outstanding
	3
	85%
	Good, meeting all expectations
	2
	70%
	OK, but some expectations were not fully met
	1
	50%
	Below expectations
	0
	0%
	Missing (or extremely low quality) work
	

IMPORTANT: We expect all team members to contribute to the project.
Students who do not participate are risking not earning a mark for this phase.
